[docs] Describe sending events from native modules (#19496)
expo/expo: docs/pages/modules/module-api.mdx

```

</CodeBlocksTable>

> See [Sending events](#sending-events) to learn how to send events from the native code to JavaScript.

Author: ```suggestion
See [Sending events](#sending-events) to learn how to send events from the native code to JavaScript/TypeScript.
```

</APIBox>

## Guides

<APIBox header="Sending events">

> While the JavaScript -> Native communication is mostly covered by native functions, you might also want to let the JavaScript code know about some certain system events,
> for example when the clipboard content changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While JavaScript to Native communication is mostly covered by native functions, you might also want to let the JavaScript code know about certain system events, for example, when the clipboard content changes.
```

Updaing some language + removing the symbol `->` as per our writing styleguide: https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#symbols-as-words (the styleguide may only talk about & and + but I think in this case it is valid for "->" too).

> To do this, in the module definition you need to provide the event names that the module can send, using the [Events](#events) definition component.
> After that you can use `sendEvent(eventName, payload)` function on the module instance to send the actual event with some payload.
> A minimal clipboard implementation that sends native events may look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this, in the module definition, you need to provide the event names that the module can send using the [Events](#events) definition component. After that, you can use the `sendEvent(eventName, payload)` function on the module instance to send the actual event with some payload. For example, a minimal clipboard implementation that sends native events may look like this:
```

      NotificationCenter.default.removeObserver(
        self,
        name: UIPasteboard.changedNotification,
        object: nil
      )
    }
  }

  @objc
  private func clipboardChangedListener() {
    sendEvent(CLIPBOARD_CHANGED_EVENT_NAME, [
      "contentTypes": availableContentTypes()
    ])
  }
}
```

```kotlin
const val CLIPBOARD_CHANGED_EVENT_NAME = "onClipboardChanged"

class ClipboardModule : Module() {
  override fun definition() = ModuleDefinition {
    Events(CLIPBOARD_CHANGED_EVENT_NAME)

    OnStartObserving {
      clipboardManager?.addPrimaryClipChangedListener(listener)
    }

    OnStopObserving {
      clipboardManager?.removePrimaryClipChangedListener(listener)
    }
  }

  private val clipboardManager: ClipboardManager?
    get() = appContext.reactContext?.getSystemService(Context.CLIPBOARD_SERVICE) as? ClipboardManager

  private val listener = ClipboardManager.OnPrimaryClipChangedListener {
    clipboardManager?.primaryClipDescription?.let { clip ->
      this@ClipboardModule.sendEvent(
        CLIPBOARD_CHANGED_EVENT_NAME,
        bundleOf(
          "contentTypes" to availableContentTypes(clip)
        )
      )
    }
  }
}
```

</CodeBlocksTable>

> To subscribe to these events in JavaScript, you need to wrap the native module with `EventEmitter` class, like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To subscribe to these events in JavaScript, you need to wrap the native module with `EventEmitter` class as shown:
```

> ```ts TypeScript

Reviewer: In the sentence above, JavaScript is being referenced. Here, in the code snippet, we are specifying TypeScript. I know the only difference between the two here is the added type but somebody not familiar with TypeScript might not get the difference and could lead to confusion.

I do think that 
- we can either reference JavaScript/TypeScript and and then also add a JavaScript example for one to copy-paste it.
- or stick to JavaScript example (and remove the type from this example) because in this page, above, we are also referencing [another JavaScript example](https://docs.expo.dev/modules/module-api/#function)

Author: We used "JavaScript" to refer to the JavaScript runtime (and the final code is always JavaScript), but I agree that using it interchangeably might be confusing.
I'm more in favor of using `JavaScript/TypeScript` in text and only TypeScript in the code blocks, sometimes we may want to refer to types that we're exporting and I guess it would have some value for readers 🤔

Reviewer: I agree with you on referencing types that we export in different scenarios. Mentioning the `JavaScript/TypeScript` makes more sense. I think, in general, if we don't talk or provide reference types, there will be more gotchas/blockers.

I will keep an eye if our users get stuck with TypeScript/JavaScript code conversion or if there are strong opinions so that we can find a way to provide a better experience, but for now, I think the changes you made are all good!

</APIBox>

## Guides

<APIBox header="Sending events">

> While JavaScript to Native communication is mostly covered by native functions, you might also want to let the JavaScript code know about certain system events, for example, when the clipboard content changes.

Author: ```suggestion
While JavaScript/TypeScript to Native communication is mostly covered by native functions, you might also want to let the JavaScript/TypeScript code know about certain system events, for example, when the clipboard content changes.
```

      NotificationCenter.default.removeObserver(
        self,
        name: UIPasteboard.changedNotification,
        object: nil
      )
    }
  }

  @objc
  private func clipboardChangedListener() {
    sendEvent(CLIPBOARD_CHANGED_EVENT_NAME, [
      "contentTypes": availableContentTypes()
    ])
  }
}
```

```kotlin
const val CLIPBOARD_CHANGED_EVENT_NAME = "onClipboardChanged"

class ClipboardModule : Module() {
  override fun definition() = ModuleDefinition {
    Events(CLIPBOARD_CHANGED_EVENT_NAME)

    OnStartObserving {
      clipboardManager?.addPrimaryClipChangedListener(listener)
    }

    OnStopObserving {
      clipboardManager?.removePrimaryClipChangedListener(listener)
    }
  }

  private val clipboardManager: ClipboardManager?
    get() = appContext.reactContext?.getSystemService(Context.CLIPBOARD_SERVICE) as? ClipboardManager

  private val listener = ClipboardManager.OnPrimaryClipChangedListener {
    clipboardManager?.primaryClipDescription?.let { clip ->
      this@ClipboardModule.sendEvent(
        CLIPBOARD_CHANGED_EVENT_NAME,
        bundleOf(
          "contentTypes" to availableContentTypes(clip)
        )
      )
    }
  }
}
```

</CodeBlocksTable>

> To subscribe to these events in JavaScript, you need to wrap the native module with `EventEmitter` class as shown:

Author: ```suggestion
To subscribe to these events in JavaScript/TypeScript, you need to wrap the native module with `EventEmitter` class as shown:
```
